Thank you to the SNHU Computer Science program, I have been able to learn a lot for the Computer Science field. When I first started in this program, I was not sure exactly what I was getting into. I knew about the basics of the field but did not know all that the field had to offer. With the program at SNHU, I was able to learn the basics for this field as well as help me with my concentration in software engineering.

I have been able to work with my peers in a team environment to help work on a jukebox application. With the use of version control I was able to create branches in the production of the code as well as being able to see what others have been able to create. This allowed me to learn how much this field requires a team environment. When working with stakeholders, you need to make sure that you work with them. You need to make sure you listen to them and lay down what you can do for these stakeholders. In the end you are working for the stakeholders and need to make sure that everything can be met in the timeframe given as well as creating the application that they are looking to be developed. I have been able to work with algorithms in code. This allowed me to be able to create different ways to look at data that was collected and to break it down and find the data that was being looked for. I have gotten experience in building mobile applications as well as creating devices with the use of Raspberry Pi. With these devices I have also been able to create databases using SQL and .json. When it comes to the security for this field, it is very important. When creating code or uploading data it is important to include security measures. This could be to keep personal data secure or to keep code up to data with changes.

Looking at the three artifacts that I have selected, I have been able to show my ability to work with different parts of the computer science field, in particular, artifacts that show my skill related to software engineering. The first artifact is showing my skill in software design and engineering. This artifact is used to show the light levels in a room. Depending on the level of light that the sensor picks up, the LED will be turned on. This device has three different LEDs that will turn on depending on the level of light. This device uses the Raspberry Pi device and Grove Pi sensor.

 The second artifact that I created was for algorithms and data structure. In this artifact, I created a python pipeline code. Before this code is to work you must connect to a local host using the database and collection that the data is located in. Then once the local host is activated the user picks a category. After selecting a category, it will show the top 10 stocks based on the data from that category. 
 
My last artifact works with databases. In this artifact I am using a device created with the Raspberry Pi and Grove Pi sensors. This device is a weather station that collects the temperature and humidity with the humidity sensor. Then the data is sent to a .json file. This device also uses the LEDs from the Grove Pi, to light up showing the user the temperature and humidity. There are three LEDs in this device and depending on the temperature and humidity, a certain LED would turn on. This device is supposed to be ran without stopping. There is a timer on this device that will collect the data every 30 minutes, unless the light level is too low. Then when the light level is too low the device will let the user know.

Below I have the narratives for the three artifacts in this portfolio: 

The first artifact is used to show the light levels in the room. Depending on the level of light that the sensor picks up the LED will be turned on. This is an artifact for the software design and engineering. This was created in my cs 350 class using the raspberry pi. I selected this artifact because I am creating a device using code. For this artifact, the components that showcase my skill is the python code that is needed to get the device to work correctly. Also, another component that is showcased is the grove pi sensors being applied to the grove pi and raspberry pi to get the device to work. Based on the course plans I have meet them. I successfully created a device that will detect light levels and depending on the levels change which LED will be turned on. With this artifact I did not have much problems with it. I did have to change the resistance levels for each LED to give a better showing from the light levels. 

The second artifact I am looking at the top_stocks route in my Final_Project2.py file. This uses the top_stocks_json file. This file now looks for the top 10 accounts in the stocks.json file. For this pipeline we are using the profit margins for these accounts to find the top 10 accounts. This was created in my cs340 class using python on Codio. I picked this for the artifact because this was the hardest part in the class that I had a problem with. I could not get my pipelines to work correctly for most of the class and wanted to get more practice with them. For this artifact I get to work on my python coding as well as enhance my skill in working with pipelines and how to change them and make them more defined. 
I feel like I have met the objectives the best I can with this artifact. There probably is ways for me to make this pipeline more defined in showing multiple results making the top 10 accounts easily separated, but with learning this part recently I am still getting the hang of it. Though for my milestone one objective, I have to say I reached it, since I was just wanting to see more then just 5 top stocks and see a different way to sort the accounts. After enhancing this artifact I was able to see that the top accounts will change depending on which category you choose to look at. Some challenges I have faced with this artifact though, would have to be trying to make this pipeline more accurate and giving it more categories to look at and to actually get it to run correctly. Since I was unable to get it to work I had to delete the extras and go back to the basics until I can find a way to get it to work and read more about adding the commands. 

In the third artifact I created a weather station using my raspberry pi with the grove pi and its sensors. With this the temperature and humidity are collected using the humidity sensor. There are LEDs that are used to indicate the certain temperature and humidity collected. After the data is collected it is saved into the data.json file. This artifact was first created in my cs 350 class.
With this artifact I was able to fix my .json file. When it was first turned in my data was not saving correctly to the file. But after fixing it I can save the data collected to the data.json file. I selected this item because it shows the best interpretation of what I have learned. This artifact shows my skill with python and my ability to add multiple parts learned before and save it to a database. I have met the objectives I was looking to achieve by fixing my file and being able to save my data.
Looking at this artifact I have been trying to fix this error for quite a while. I tried many ways to get the data to save, but nothing worked. In the end I realized that it was a simple fix. All I had to do was move two line of code down into a while statement. What I learned from this is that some of the fixes needed are much easier than they appear and that you need to really look at the code and see what parts go together. 
